SIMULATE
GENERATE 4,1   ; cust arrive every 4+-1 min
QUEUE LINE     ; a queue called line exists
SEIZE B        ; barber is busy
DEPART LINE    ; the cust departs the line when service starts
ADVANCE 4,3    ; service time can be 4+-3
RELEASE B      ; barber is free
TERMINATE 1
START 250

Aim: Simulation of Single server Single Queueing System
Theory: A single server queuing system consists of customers arriving at a service facility, waiting in a queue if the server is busy 
and receiving the service once the server is free and then departing. 
The system consists of arrival rate, service rate, queue length and waiting time. 
COMMANDS:
1.	GENERATE: creates entities at specified intervals/ inter-arrival times.
2.	ADVANCE: simulate the passage of time during which an entity is in transit or being processed.
3.	SEIZE: allocates a resource to an entity. If unavailable, the entity has to wait in a queue.
4.	RELEASE: frees the resource or the server after the service is completed, making it available to serve the next entity.
5.	TERMINATE: ends the process of an entity or stops the simulation based on a condition.
Scenario Overview:
•	The Barber Shop: The shop has a single barber (server) and a single line (queue) where customers wait for service. 
This type of system is known as an M/M/1 queue, where:
o	M stands for "Markovian" or memoryless, meaning the arrival times and service times follow exponential distributions.
o	1 refers to a single server, in this case, the barber.
Key Components:
1.	Customers: Customers arrive at the barber shop at random intervals. When they arrive, they enter the queue and wait for the barber to become available 
if the barber is busy.
2.	Barber (Server): The barber is responsible for serving customers. The barber can only serve one customer at a time.
3.	Queue (Line): If the barber is busy serving another customer, arriving customers will have to wait in the queue. 
Conclusion: 
Total customers generated: 256
Customers served successfully: 250
Single server B utilization = 0.969 (96.9%), meaning the server was busy almost all the time.
Average service time ≈ 3.97 minutes
Maximum queue length reached 7 customers
Average waiting time in queue ≈ 7.4 minutes
The GPSS simulation represents a single-server queue system. 
The server utilization was very high (96.9%), showing that the server remained busy most of the time. 
Customers experienced moderate waiting in the queue, with an average waiting time of about 7.4 minutes. 
Hence, the system is efficient but heavily loaded and may require an additional server to reduce waiting time.





