SIMULATE
STORAGE BARBER 3  ;Creates 3 servers/resources
GENERATE 10,5
QUEUE LINE
ENTER BARBER  ;Customer occupies one available server
DEPART LINE
ADVANCE 8,4
LEAVE BARBER  ;Frees one server
TERMINATE 
GENERATE 480 ;480 MINS OR 4 HOUR SIMULATION
TERMINATE 1
START 1


Aim:

Simulation of Multiple Server Single Queueing System

Theory:

A multiple server single queueing system consists of customers arriving at a service
facility containing multiple servers. Customers wait in a common queue if all servers 
are busy and receive service from the next available server before departing from the system.

The system consists of:

Arrival rate
Service rate
Queue length
Waiting time
Number of servers
COMMANDS:
GENERATE
Creates customers/entities at specified inter-arrival times.
QUEUE
Places arriving customers into the waiting line.
ENTER
Allocates one unit of storage/server to a customer.
DEPART
Removes the customer from the queue when service begins.
ADVANCE
Simulates service time.
LEAVE
Releases the occupied server after service completion.
TERMINATE
Removes the customer from the system or ends the simulation.
STORAGE
Defines multiple identical servers/resources.
Scenario Overview:
The Barber Shop:

The barber shop contains multiple barbers (servers) and a single common 
queue where customers wait for service.

This system is known as an M/M/C queue, where:

M represents Markovian arrival distribution (random arrivals)
M represents Markovian service distribution (random service times)
C represents multiple servers
Key Components:
1. Customers

Customers arrive randomly at the barber shop. If all servers are busy, 
customers wait in the common queue.

2. Servers (Barbers)

There are multiple barbers available to serve customers simultaneously. 
Each barber can serve one customer at a time.

3. Queue (Line)

A single waiting line is maintained. Customers are served on a first-come 
first-served basis whenever a server becomes free.

Conclusion

The GPSS simulation represents a Multiple Server Single Queue system with 3 servers (barbers)
and one common waiting line.

During the 480-minute simulation:

Total customers generated: 47
Customers served successfully: 46
Number of servers available: 3
Storage utilization = 0.256 (25.6%)
Average number of busy servers ≈ 0.768
Maximum queue length reached = 1 customer
Average waiting time in queue = 0 minutes

The report shows that the system handled customers efficiently with 
very little queue formation. Since three servers were available, customers received
service immediately in most cases. The server utilization was low,
indicating that the system had more than enough service capacity for the incoming customers.
